{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Beach Extended;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red153\green51\blue0;\red51\green51\blue153;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\cf1\b\i\f0\fs52 Melody Creator\'99\par
\pard\i0\f1\fs36\par
Directions:\par
\par
\cf0\b0\tab Simply click on the keys of the provided keyboard to construct a simple melody.\par
\tab The number of notes your melody needs to have is 9, but you can change this setting.\par
\par
\tab Following the completion of your melody, the computer will employ a melody \i generator\i0\par
\tab to create a melody and perform it as a response.\par
\cf1\b\par
Interface:\par
\par
\cf0\b0\tab The keyboard provides an area to input notes in order to make a melody.  The keyboard\par
\tab does not support rhythmic playing, effectively it only plays quarter notes.  However,\par
\tab it reads natural notes from a wide range of pitches and can be customized.\par
\par
\tab Buttons are placed below and to the left of the keyboard that provide access to useful\par
\tab options found in the menu.  The buttons match menu items.\par
\par
\tab A number of text areas below the keyboard gives information\par
\tab about melodies being played as well as information about how the player is set.\par
\par
\tab "User Melody" and "Comp Melody" allow you to observe and\par
\tab analyze any melodies produced by the respective players.\par
\par
\tab The blue "Played" field describes events occurring in real time.\par
\par
\tab "Generator Method" describes how Melody Creator will compose a melody.\par
\tab Refer to "Menus:" for a more detailed description on generator methods.\par
\par
\tab The following items on the bottom line are changeable in the settings menu:\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Melody Note Size:  \cf0 The number of notes in a melody that you and the computer will play.\par
\tab\tab The sizes are based on the number of beats that usually exist in a phrase that sounds\par
\tab\tab whole and complete in common time (4/4).  That is, an even number of beats plus a strong\par
\tab\tab beat are present in every phrase that is played.\par
\i\tab\tab (default: 9)\par
\par
\cf2\i0\tab\tab First Keyboard Note: \cf0 The lowest key the keyboard can play.  Can be changed as low as C_1.\par
\tab\tab If it is changed so high that the top of the keyboard range includes invalid notes, the\par
\tab\tab first note will be lowered to compensate.\par
\i\tab\tab (default: C_3)\par
\par
\cf2\i0\tab\tab Keyboard Range:\cf0  The number of keys present on the keyboard.\par
\i\tab\tab (default: 15, two diatonic octaves)\par
\par
\cf2\i0\tab\tab Tonality:\cf0  The arrangement of notes on the keyboard in an intended key-signature\par
\tab\tab for the melody to have.\par
\i\tab\tab (default: C-Major Diatonic)\par
\par
\par
\cf1\b\i0 Menus:\par
\par
\cf0\b0\tab A number of menu's provide the ability to manipulate the settings of the Melody Creator.\par
\par
\tab The "\ul Settings\ulnone " menu provides options for altering aspects of the playable keyboard and\par
\tab melody played.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Restart Melody:  \cf0 Clears a current melody and begin a new melody to perform.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Reuse Melody: \cf3  Selecting this will automatically input the entire, previously used user\par
\tab\tab melody and engage Melody Creator to create another composed melody.  Useful for\par
\tab\tab obtaining multiple compositions from a single given user melody.\par
\par
\tab\tab\cf2 Replay Set: \cf3  A set is the combination of a given user melody and the generated response.\par
\tab\tab By replaying the set, you will hear the melody you played followed by the same composition\par
\tab\tab the generator came up with.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Save Set: \cf3  This option allows you to save a set, and can be replayed later at any time.\par
\par
\tab\tab\cf2 Play Saved Set: \cf3  This option allows you to play a previously saved set.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Change Keyboard's First Note: \cf0 The presented selections shift the keyboard range so that the\par
\tab\tab first note of the keyboard matches the chosen option.  If the given first note and keyboard\par
\tab\tab range are incompatible with valid key setups, a different first note will be used to preserve\par
\tab\tab the keyboard range within approprate key setups.\par
\i\par
\cf2\i0\tab\tab Change Keyboard's Range:\cf0  The presented selections alter the number playable keys present\par
\tab\tab on the keyboard.\par
\par
\tab\tab\cf2 Change Melody Size:\cf0  The presented selections change the size of the melody that Melody\par
\tab\tab Creator expects from the user and uses to compose.\par
\par
\tab The "\ul Generator\ulnone " menu provides selections for changing specifications of the Melody Creator,\par
\tab itself, such as which method the Melody Creator should use to compose a melody.  Only one\par
\tab of the following methods can be selected at a time.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Complete Automation:  \cf0 Melody Creator has total control over which composition methods\par
\tab\tab to use to generate a melody.\par
\i\par
\cf2\i0\tab\tab Copy Melody: \cf3 The generator produces a full copy of the user's melody.\cf2\par
\cf0\i\par
\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Horizontal Axis Flip:\cf0  The generator flips the user melody along a horizontal axis.  For\par
\tab\tab instance, within the melody, the highest note becomes the lowest note, and the lowest note\par
\tab\tab becomes the highest note.  The melody maintains its range.\par
\par
\i\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Vertical Axis Flip:\cf0  The generator flips the user melody along a vertical axis.  For instance,\par
\tab\tab the user melody's last note becomes the generator's first note, and vice versa.\par
\par
\i\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Simple Harmony Flop:\cf0  After translating the users melody into a simple \i I-V \i0 chord dialect,\par
\tab\tab the generator shifts \i I \i0 chord notes to \i V \i0 chord notes, and \i V \i0 chord notes to \i I \i0 chord notes.  This\par
\tab\tab particular method pays no attention to resolving the melody.\par
\par
\i\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Lowered Sequence:\cf0  The generator copies the contour (shape) of the given melody, and\par
\tab\tab starts the melody on a different, lower, nearby note.  If the lowest note of the user's melody\par
\tab\tab is also the lowest possible keyboard note, the result will be a mere copy.\par
\par
\i\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Raised Sequence:\cf0  The generator copies the contour (shape) of the given melody, and\par
\tab\tab starts the melody on a different, higher, nearby note.  If the highest note of the user's melody\par
\tab\tab is also the highest possible keyboard note, the result will be a mere copy.\par
\par
\i\tab\tab\cf2\i0 Resolve Last Note:\cf0  The generator copy's the user melody and, if it must, alters the ending\par
\tab\tab so that it resolves (sounds "finished").\par
\par
\tab\tab\cf2 Simple Consequent Part-Echo:\cf0  The generator copy's most of the user melody and ensures\par
\tab\tab that the resulting melody resolves (sounds "finished").\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Consequent Conjunct Response:\cf0  The generator creates a stepwise melody that resolves\par
\tab\tab at a note close to where the given melody ends.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Consequent Disjunct Response:\cf0  The generator creates a skipwise melody that resolves\par
\tab\tab at a note close to where the given melody ends.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Multi-Sequence Response:\cf0  The generator takes a short portion of the user's melody and creates\par
\tab\tab multiple sequences of it.  It then inserts each sequence into the melody, which is resolved.\par
\tab\tab This method is particularly effective with longer melodies.\par
\par
\cf2\tab\tab Random Cacophony:\cf0  The generator chooses completely random notes and fills the melody.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\fs20 Justin Taylor\i\fs36\par
\par
}
 